# Follina

This is an incident response challenge on BTLO. It is categorised as easy. To complete this challenge, the following tools were useful.

* VirusTotal
* Any.Run

## Scenario

> _On a Friday evening when you were in a mood to celebrate your weekend, your team was alerted with a new RCE vulnerability actively being exploited in the wild. You have been tasked with analyzing and researching the sample to collect information for the weekend team._

The sample can be found [here](https://blueteamlabs.online/home/challenge/follina-f1a3452f34).

## Submission Questions

Question 1) What is the SHA1 hash value of the sample? (Format: SHA1Hash) (1 points)

Question 2) According to VirusTotal, what is the full filetype of the provided sample? (Format: X X X X) (1 points)

Question 3) Extract the URL that is used within the sample and submit it (Format: https://x.domain.tld/path/to/something) (1 points)

Question 4) What is the name of the XML file that is storing the extracted URL? (Format: file.name.ext) (1 points)

Question 5) The extracted URL accesses a HTML file that triggers the vulnerability to execute a malicious payload. According to the HTML processing functions, any files with fewer than bytes would not invoke the payload. Submit the (Format: Number of Bytes) (1 points)

Question 6) After execution, the sample will try to kill a process if it is already running. What is the name of this process? (Format: filename.ext) (1 points)

Question 7) You were asked to write a process-based detection rule using Windows Event ID 4688. What would be the ProcessName and ParentProcessname used in this detection rule? \[Hint: OSINT time!] (Format: ProcessName, ParentProcessName) (1 points)

Question 8) Submit the MITRE technique ID used by the sample for Execution \[Hint: Online sandbox platforms can help!] (Format: TXXXX) (1 points)

Question 9) Submit the CVE associated with the vulnerability that is being exploited (Format: CVE-XXXX-XXXXX) (2 points)

## Summary

This was indeed an easy challenge. However, as easy it was, I learnt something.

1. I learnt how to
2.
